# DeprivationAnalysis_Barking-Dagenham
Analysis of the changes in Deprivation and its relationship with the access to good education and good employment.

 Deprivation is a phenomenon, closely related to poverty that has a strong relationship with the location. The borough of Barking and Dagenham has a long history of deprivation, connected to their manufacturing heritage. With a fast-growing and changing population the borough is facing more challenges to overcome this status. This study aims to understand if the borough is under-performing compared to the rest of London. There is a lack of studies in the changes of deprivation due to the impossibility to conduct direct comparisons. Therefore, this study looks at the relative changes on the rank of the Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) and its relationship with the creative economy. Considering the creative economy as a driver for economic growth, the study attempts to analyse the relationship of this changes with the access to employment and education. The study defines, on one hand, metrics of accessibility to education, using school data and census data. On the other hand, using the points of interest as a proxy for employment opportunities, the study defines two measures of access to employment based on the gravity model. To understand this relationship, quantitative methods are used to conduct the analysis, four regression models will be tested using spatial autorregresive model to account for the spatial correlation. 

The results indicate a correlation between the changes in access to retail and entertainment opportunities and the IMD, as well as the domains of income and employment deprivation. The education domain proved to be correlated with the changes in access to knowledge-based opportunities. It was observed that the performance of the borough, although not optimal, does not behave much differently than the rest of London.
